# ***S3***

- Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is storage for the internet. 
- You can use Amazon S3 to store and retrieve any amount of data at any time, from anywhere on the web. 
- You can accomplish these tasks using the AWS Management Console, which is a simple and intuitive web interface.
- To get the most out of Amazon S3, you need to understand a few simple concepts.
- Amazon S3 stores data as objects within buckets. An object consists of a file and optionally any metadata that describes that file. 
- To store an object in Amazon S3, you upload the file you want to store to a bucket. 
  When you upload a file, you can set permissions on the object and any metadata.
- Buckets are the containers for objects. 
- You can have one or more buckets. For each bucket, you can control access to it (who can create, delete, and list objects in the bucket),
  view access logs for it and its objects, and choose the geographical region where Amazon S3 will store the bucket and its contents.
  
  
  ## ***Advantages of using Amazon S3***
    
    *Amazon S3 is intentionally built with a minimal feature set that focuses on simplicity and robustness. 
     Following are some of the advantages of using Amazon S3:*

**Creating buckets** 
- Create and name a bucket that stores data. Buckets are the fundamental containers in Amazon S3 for data storage.

**Storing data**
- Store an infinite amount of data in a bucket. Upload as many objects as you like into an Amazon S3 bucket. 
  Each object can contain up to 5 TB of data. Each object is stored and retrieved using a unique developer-assigned key.

**Downloading data**
- Download your data or enable others to do so. Download your data anytime you like, or allow others to do the same.

**Permissions**
- Grant or deny access to others who want to upload or download data into your Amazon S3 bucket. 
  Grant upload and download permissions to three types of users.
  Authentication mechanisms can help keep data secure from unauthorized access.

**Standard interfaces**
- Use standards-based REST and SOAP interfaces designed to work with any internet-development toolkit.
